+++
date = '2025-12-15T19:50:46+01:00'
draft = false
title = 'Datapacks'
type = "docs"
next = "datapacks/add_oxidation_transformation"
weight = 20
+++

> [!CAUTION]
> The datapacks are only supported to versions superior or equal to 1.5.0

Copper Extension's oxidation, waxing and lightning effect mechanisms **are entirely data driven since 1.5.0.** So it means that anyone can make a datapack that can add custom oxidation, waxing, etc for modded or vanilla items.

# Getting started

If your already comfortable with Minecraft's Datapacks, or making a Minecraft mod, then **you can skip all this page** and check the [sections](#Sections).

## Setup your environement

To get started, you need to create the environement to edit and test your datapack. There is multiple ways to do it. But if your are a beginner, and if your are not making a Minecraft mod. Then you can follows thoes steps:

{{% steps %}}

### 1. Create a world

Create a simple world on your Minecraft **with the Copper Extension mod added.** Simple step, to needs to get further.

### 2. Find the datapack folder

Go into the datapack folder of your brand new world. First you need to find the world folder. To find it try to go on this path.

{{< tabs items="Windows,macOS,Linux" defaultIndex="0" >}}

  {{< tab >}}Press *Alt+D* or *Win+R* then navigate to `%APPDATA%\.minecraft\saves\`, and then select your world folder.{{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab >}}Press *Cmd+Shift+D* then navigate to `~/Library/Application Support/minecraft/saves/`, and then select your world folder.{{< /tab >}}
  {{< tab >}}Go to `~/.minecraft/saves/`, and then select your world folder.{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabs >}}

Once you find the world folder. Normally, there is a `datapack` folder included. If not you can create it. This is where your gonna make your datapack.

### 3. Create the datapack

Finally, once you are in the datapack folder, you can create your datapack. But to create a datapack, it need to follow a specific structure using folders and files.

But if you are a bit lazy, and your Minecraft world is still runnin', you can execute this command `/datapack create <id> <description>`. Then here is the datapack structure generated by the command:

{{< filetree/container >}}
  {{< filetree/folder name="<id>" >}}
    {{< filetree/file name="pack.mcmeta" >}}
    {{< filetree/file name="pack.png" >}}
    {{< filetree/folder name="data" state="closed" >}}
    {{< /filetree/folder >}}
  {{< /filetree/folder >}}
{{< /filetree/container >}}


`pack.mcmeta`: This is the main file of your data pack. It contains the basic informations of the datapack. This is what is should look like:

```json {filename="pack.mcmeta"}
{
    "pack": {
        "description": "This is the description of your data pack",
		"min_format": 88,
        "max_format": 88
    }
}
```
The `min_format` and `max_format` is the Minecraft version range which your datapack is *"useable"*. On this exemple, version 88 correspond to Minecraft version 1.21.9-1.21.10. You can get a list of the datapack versions [here](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Data_pack#pack.mcmeta).

Finally, on the `data` folder you can add the Namespaces and get started making your datapack! I don't want to do into details but basicly a Namespace is a group to categorize where the data should go. If you don't know about Namespaces, I really recommand checkout this [Minecraft wiki page](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Identifier#Namespaces).

If you want more details on how to make your own datapack. Checkout the [Minecraft Wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Tutorial:Creating_a_data_pack).

### 4. Add custom data

Once you created your datapack, you can finally create somethings. If you want to learn how to add custom oxidation, waxing or lightning effects, then check the [sections](#Sections).

Also by the way, if you needs help to make a datapack, there is a great [website](https://misode.github.io/) which I still use these days.

{{% /steps %}}

# Sections
{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="add_oxidation_transformation" title="Oxidation Transformation" subtitle="Add a custom oxidation transformation in Copper Extension." icon="code" image="oxidation.png" >}}
  {{< card link="add_waxing_transformation" title="Waxing Transformation" subtitle="Add a custom waxing transformation in Copper Extension." icon="code" image="../mechanics/waxing.png" >}}
  {{< card link="add_lightning_effect" title="Lightning Effect" subtitle="Add a custom lightning effect in Copper Extension." icon="code" image="../mechanics/lightning_effect.png" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
